plants can cry?
Chibuzor Nwachukwu
Chibuzor Nwachukwu

Follow
2 min read
·
Nov 6, 2025
10




in the end, yes . . . or maybe?

Press enter or click to view image in full size

Photo by Xiangkun ZHU on Unsplash
The issue with farmland is rarely the lack of plants. The concern is whether the desired plants will be harvested in the end. As a result, we see two kinds of growth in the field: the wheat & the weed.

Let us consider the weed first.

The weed is not wanted. It is the farmer’s challenge. To the wheat, it is a stumbling block. It produces nothing of value yet consumes everything. It grows fast, very fast. This odd character is keen on taking up space, and more often, blocking sunlight. It prides itself in spreading widely and confidently.

A con artist of the field, it looks so much like the real thing that it cannot be identified until maturity, when it is already too late to separate easily. Talk about a real pretender.

The question is: Why?

What truly mattered all along?

Pure breed? The real one?

Press enter or click to view image in full size

The wheat is the farmer’s ideal crop. His reapers agree. Valuable, fruitful, aligned with the initial intent, timing and location.

Get Chibuzor Nwachukwu’s stories in your inbox
Join Medium for free to get updates from this writer.

Enter your email
Subscribe
Albeit perfect in the farmer’s book, it is delicate, easily affected by its deceptive counterpart, the weed. To grow well, it requires pruning. Often. The pruning, a sometimes harsh process, leads to good growth and abundance.

However, even among the wheat, there is a question: Are all wheat the same?

Time passes. Months, years, and ages. Then the day of reckoning arrives. The time for harvest.

The weed, once confident, is pulled out. Completely. Its roots are removed. Nothing remains. Its long enjoyment of the sunshine and soil no longer matters. Alas! The end is here.

It is gathered together, not for storage. For burning.

It all makes sense now, the wheat, even the reapers get it too. The master had such a grand plan. His position was simple: why damage the wheat while trying to root out the

Now attention turns to the wheat. All of it is wanted. All of it was grown with purpose. Yet there is an inspection.

What did each stalk do with the resources it received?

Some appear strong and full. Some are exceptionally fruitful. Others are weaker, though still wheat.

Like for any produce, the end results & rewards differ. The finest are set aside for the king’s table. Others are given to chiefs. Others go to citizens, each according to its value.

The real question remains:

What truly mattered all along?

Disclaimer: This was never about plants.